# AutoMetricGNN

Title: Auto-Metric Graph Neural Network Based on a Meta-learning Strategy for the Diagnosis of Alzheimer ’s disease

Author list： Xiaofan Song, Mingyi Mao, Xiaohua Qian

Our source codes with a demon will be released once this manuscript is accepted for publication.

Abstract: Alzheimer’s disease (AD) is the most common cognitive disorder. The number of AD patients worldwide is high and continues to increase, posing a substantial burden on the healthcare system. The currently available drugs can only delay the development of AD in the early stages, making it essential to provide accurate diagnoses and predictions of AD progression. In recent years, many computer-aided diagnosis techniques have been proposed. Among them, graph-based deep learning algorithms have received extensive attention owing to their ability to effectively fuse multimodal features and model the correlation between samples. However, many current graph-based studies require establishing a large and fixed graph in advance. This model lacks flexibility, and applications have been limited. In this study, we propose an auto-metric graph neural network (AMGNN) model based on meta-learning. First, the idea of metric-based meta-learning is introduced in the model, which is trained by multiple node classification tasks to make it flexible and extensible. Because a small sample size is sufficient to construct multiple graphs, the model does not require a large sample size. Furthermore, an AMGNN layer with a probability constrain is designed to realize a node similarity metric’s learning and to effectively fuse multimodal data. We verified the model on two tasks based on the TADPOLE dataset: early AD diagnosis and mild cognitive impairment (MCI) conversion prediction. Our model matches the performance of state-of-the-art methods on both tasks with accuracies of 94.44% and 87.5% and median accuracies of 94.19% and 86.25%. These results show that our model improves flexibility while ensuring a good classification performance, thus promoting the development of graph-based deep learning algorithms in disease diagnosis.
